UPDATED: Q&A with a Production Engineer @ Deliveroo (#249)
deliveroo/deliveroo.engineering: _posts/2022-05-27-qna-production-engineering.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Q&A with a Production Engineer @ Deliveroo"
authors:
  - "Sanyia Saidova"
excerpt: >

>   There's a lot to being a production engineer at Deliveroo, and there's no better way to answer this than in a Q&A fashion. So here are some of the questions I get asked and my answer to them. :)

Reviewer: Should it be
```suggestion
  There's a lot to being a production engineer at Deliveroo, and there's no better way to answer this than in a Q&A fashion. So here are some of the questions I got asked and my answers to them. :)
```

?

Reviewer: Thanks @joshua-levin-deliveroo , TIL!

---

## Table of Contents
{:.no_toc}

1. Automatic Table of Contents Here
{:toc}

## Who am I?

> I am a senior software engineer working at Deliveroo for nearly 1.5 years, focusing in the production engineering space, where we create abstractions for our platform and improve developer effectiveness. Prior to joining Deliveroo, I worked in a mixture of infrastructure and software development roles. My previous experience ranged from working in a telecoms based company which was largely on premises to a consultancy that allowed me to experience multiple cloud environments.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick:
```suggestion
I am a senior software engineer working at Deliveroo for nearly 1.5 years, focusing in the production engineering space, where we create abstractions for our platform and improve developer effectiveness. Prior to joining Deliveroo, I worked in a mixture of infrastructure and software development roles. My previous experience ranged from working in a telecoms based company, which was largely on premises, to a consultancy that allowed me to experience multiple cloud environments.
```

## Why did I join Deliveroo?

> I joined Deliveroo because of our engineering excellence. It was actually the chemistry I had with the engineers during my interviews that convinced me to accept the offer. The involvement in the open source community as individuals and the contributions to conferences like AWS re:Invent made me appreciate how much their job was also their hobby - I wanted to be surrounded by people with that mindset.

Reviewer: For re:Invent do you want to link for example Alison's presentation?

Author: Yes please! Do you know where I can find it?

Reviewer: Found it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFIMpgSgSaQ

> ## What are some of the impactful projects I’ve worked on and contributed to?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are some of the impactful projects I’ve worked on and contributed to?
```
Changed the space, it looks like this was not rendered as a headline: https://deploy-preview-249--vibrant-cray-a1ffaf.netlify.app/2022/05/27/qna-production-engineering.html

Author: Thanks for spotting that!

Although I only joined in January 2021, I have since been promoted to a senior software engineer which wouldn’t have been possible without the support of our great managers who were able to provide actionable advice. I’ve been involved in projects that ranged from rethinking how we do our database monitoring to reviewing Deliveroo’s architecture at a high level in order to prepare us for future growth.

## What are the challenges I have experienced?

> One of the challenges we’re facing right now is analysing some of the decisions that helped Deliveroo get to where it is today. Deliveroo has had amazing engineers make decisions that helped propagate its growth and support an ever growing platform for the last seven years. What we want to do right now is see if those decisions will withstand the next phase of Deliveroo’s growth.

Author: I did keep it a little bit vague because I wasn't sure what details I was allowed to reveal. One of the things I'm referring to is standardising our practices around maintaining the Kubernetes clusters, moving away from Routemaster semantics and potentially looking at making more use of service meshes. Is there anything here you think I shouldn't drill into too much? Any guidance on what I can use in future to help make decisions better on what I can talk about?

## Where do I see this space going?

> We’ve recently hired a new VP, Megan Bigelow, that will be heading up the production engineering space. There are big plans in this space, including the potential for a specialised SRE team. Because we’re in a new phase of Deliveroo’s growth, this space will be focused on discovering some of the pinch-points of our architecture and rethinking our approach in bottlenecks of architecture. This is a very crucial next step for Deliveroo and production engineering will be at the heart of it. As a result, we’re aggressive about our hiring to accommodate these plans, and we’re specifically looking at software engineers to be part of production engineering, since a lot of these problems will need to be solved with custom code.

Reviewer: Should we link Megan's linkedIn profile?

Author: Good idea! Will do! :)

> ## Why do I think Deliveroo is the place to be right now and for others' career to thrive?

Reviewer 2: I think the wording is slightly awkward, what do you think about rephrasing?
```suggestion
## Is Deliveroo the place to be right now?  Can your career thrive here?
```

Reviewer 2: This does have a very corporate feel to it, so a slightly more information tweak could also read
```suggestion
## Is joining Deliveroo a good idea for me?
```

## What's on the horizon for production engineering?

We’ve recently hired a new VP, [Megan Bigelow](https://www.linkedin.com/in/megan-bigelow-0a470a2/), that will be heading up the production engineering space. There are big plans in this space, including the potential for a specialised SRE team. Because we’re focused on growth and expanding into new markets, building out the SRE team means we'll have a dedicated team that will look at enhanced monitoring (i.e. what we can do to improve our network architecture to capture more data on latency and inter-service connectivity patterns) and create action plans to address pinch points that come up with added load. 

## Why would you recommend working as a production engineer at Deliveroo?

> Production engineering at it's core is about improving developer effectiveness, thinking about overall infrastructure stability and making changes to our infrastructure without disruption to existing services. A team like this exists at the phase of a company where it's stable and looking to expand into other markets. I would recommend working in this space for the stability and because of the ease of working with our customers, who are other engineers. You're also required to know more about low level network, operating system and database concepts, so if you're interested in becoming more specialised in these areas, we're hiring! :)

Reviewer 2: More of an open comment than suggestion:

> A team like this exists at the phase of a company where it's stable and looking to expand into other markets. 

Deliveroo is already in a lot of markets, but it sounds like you're implying that this is a relatively new team for Deliveroo _because we're now looking to expand_.  I'm wondering if there's a slightly tweaked way of phrasing this?

I like the first half of being "stable", I wonder if the next part is "being able to predictably plan ahead for challenges just over the horizon"?  Not a strong opinion - just musing out loud.

Author: I think that's a good suggestion - I like your wording better, and would prefer to incorporate that in some way. Let me update this section to reflect your suggestions. Thanks for your input @joshua-levin-deliveroo ! :D
